---
title: Embracing the Journey of a Solopreneur
description: “After 5 years at Shopify, I’ve decided to pursue solopreneurship. Drawing on my craftsmanship and software development skills, I’ll build and sell tools based on user needs. Excited for the intimate relationship with development and greater agency over my life. Open to insights from others on this journey.”
categories: [Solopreneurship]
---

As many of you may already know, my time at [Shopify](https://shopidy.com) came to a close after more than 5 years of dedicated work for developers. After overcoming the initial wave of emotions, I viewed this as a golden opportunity to explore new horizons. I applied to various companies, engaged in early conversations, and even reconnected with some incredible former colleagues from Shopify. However, during those initial pre-interview discussions, I realized that those paths didn’t align with my true aspirations. It took deep introspection, but I eventually arrived at a **profound realization**: I yearn to venture into the world of solopreneurship.

Ever since I was a child, I have possessed an innate spirit of **craftsmanship**. I derive immense satisfaction from creating things and sharing them with the world. Prior to delving into technology, my chosen form of expression was drawing, which continues to be the sole activity that can truly calm me. Upon entering the technology realm, I recognized software development as an incredible tool to materialize ideas. I built open source tools, delivered engaging talks, organized conferences, and fostered communities.

Building software became my primary source of income. I **followed the conventional career path**, similar to the one that my parents and friends followed: securing a full-time job with a decent salary, working eight hours a day, and enjoying standard vacation time. My ambition drove me to seek more complex challenges and financially rewarding opportunities, leading me to companies like [SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com) and [Shopify](https://shopify.com), where my **professional growth skyrocketed**. I had the privilege of collaborating with exceptionally talented individuals from whom I learned a great deal. Looking back, my professional trajectory in my twenties couldn’t have been more fulfilling.

However, in recent years, a growing desire has been kindling within me to pursue a different professional path — one that fosters **a more intimate relationship with software development**, akin to craftsmanship. I yearn to build and sell tools based on my experience and the needs of users and organizations. The idea initially seemed daunting, but the recent layoff served as the impetus to give it a try, because if I don’t take the leap, I will always wonder what could have been. What excites me most about this new endeavor is the potential to **have greater agency over my life**, something that can be challenging to achieve as a full-time employee. Of course, there are risks involved, but I am well protected in that regard, thanks to my savings and the safety net provided by the German system.

What emboldens me to embark on this journey are all the remarkable tools I have conceived and built. A prime example is [**Tuist**](https://tuist.io), which large organizations like [Adidas](https://adidas.com), [Bloomberg](https://bloomberg.com), [American Express](https://americanexpress.com), [Monday](https://momday.com), and [Ford Motors](https://ford.de) utilize to maintain and scale their Xcode projects. Additionally, there’s the **Node-based rewrite of Shopify’s CLI**, which I envisioned as a support system for the platform’s future. I have had these exceptional ideas, but until now, I have either shared them freely as open source projects or exchanged them for a salary.

My initial step will involve **identifying which ideas can be monetized most swiftly**, and then setting to work on them. I have a multitude of ideas in the developer tooling space, and I have already validated their usefulness for organizations. Moreover, I will focus on **building my personal brand** and being more active on my blog and social networks, creating avenues for people to discover my work and potentially hire me as a contractor, which I plan to fall back on if I am unable to build something that monetizes successfully. I have begun writing **a book on designing and building CLIs**, and I am also developing a **framework and design system** that aims to serve as a foundation for creating better CLIs. I will undertake this journey alone and do not plan to transform it into a formal company. My mantra will be to **do less but better**, pouring all my passion into the select few projects that I will undertake.

I am filled with excitement as I embark on this new chapter in my career. The last time life presented me with a similar opportunity was when I made one of the best decisions of my life — moving to Berlin. Now, as I enter my thirties, it is time for me to leap onto this new train of possibilities.

If you have treaded a similar path and would be willing to share your experiences, I would love to hear from you. I have much to learn, and your insights would be invaluable. you can send me an email at [hola@pepicrft.me](mailto:hola@pepicrft.me).
